#	$Id: INSTALL,v 1.1 2005/03/21 05:23:33 jerub Exp $	
Instructions for installing the Vanilla Netrek Server

Summary
-------

	0)  decide where to install the server on your file system,
	1)  type "./configure --prefix=path" replacing path with your choice,
            (default path is /usr/local/games/netrek)
	2)  type "make install",
	3)  "cd" to the path you gave, or /usr/local/games/netrek,
	4)  "./netrekd" to start the server,
	5)  use a client to connect to the server.

Details
-------

Refer to INSTALL.RSA if you want your server to authenticate clients.

Edit the file config.h.in to meet your requirements.  You may choose to
leave this as is for a pure Vanilla default server.

To setup the server to your machine's architecture run the configure program. 
This is a script that will check your system for system dependent differences
and configure the server to deal with these.  It will accept an alternate path
to the directory into which the server is to be installed.  This is called
LIBDIR and defaults to /usr/local/games/netrek

Configure will make two files for the server to deal with the differences. 
These are config.h and system.mk.  

(If you intend to do any development work, consider typing at this stage "make
depend".  This will add file dependencies to the Makefiles to optimise
recompilation.  However, please "make rmdependencies" before submitting patches
or changes back to CVS.)

Now you're ready to make the server.  Type "make" in the source root
directory.

If everything is made okay then type "make install" to move the files to the
installation directory.

Once everything is compiled and installed you may wish to edit the server
configuration files for your requirements.  Here are some of the files and what
they do:

	.sysdef 	- tunable parameters
	.time		- playable/clue hours in it
	.banned		- list of players that are banned from server
	.clue-bypass	- list of players that don't have to go through
			  clue checking
	.conquer	- server's conquest stats output
	.features	- list of special features allowed at the server
			  that some clients might have. Some of these
			  features may be considered 'borgish'.
	.motd		- This is the information about the server for the
			  players.
	.motd_clue	- Another motd for clue playing hours.
	.reserved	- RSA public/global key listing for verification

If the install worked then go to the installation directory. There are two
programs that should be running all the time.  They are:

    1.  netrekd - waits around for a connection from a client. It then forks
	and execs an ntserv.  This also accepts connections from the metaserver
	and via telnet for the current player list.

    2.	update - wakes up once a day and gets a new key list from the
	metaserver port 3530.  It then makes a new .reserved through
	rsa_keycomp and reconstructs your .motd file.  [Note that this program
	need not run if you are behind a firewall or if you are not using RSA].

Start these two programs.  Once they are running then try connecting to the
server and check things out.  If there is a problem then check out the
docs/DEBUG.HELP file for possible solutions.

See docs/metaservers-HowTo for soliciting players via the metaservers.

For assistance, write to vanilla-list@us.netrek.org.

Developers may wish to subscribe to vanilla-list by sending an empty
email message to vanilla-list-subscribe@us.netrek.org.  No subject or
body required.  See the README for more details and other mailing
lists the Vanilla Team offers.
