  Note:  These files use defs.h and struct.h from the ntserv code.

General user tools:

  scores - Display all users, and their scores.  With no parameters this does
	   something completely useless.  "scores a" is what is usually 
	   desired, as this will list players by ranking, etc...  It only
	   takes one optional parameter, is not robust, and is sortof a 
	   hack to view the players database.  But it works.  "scores s" will
	   display the best starbases (1 hr. min), and "scores O [num]" will 
	   display the players who have not played for the last 30 days,
	   (or optionally num days if num is specified).

  players - List players in game.  If "players d" is specified, different
	    (not legal) information is provided (like number of armies, 
	    damage, etc.)


Super-user tools:

  watchmes - continuously display the messages sent in the game.  This is 
	     kinda fun, but generally useless.
  newscores - takes the output of "scores A", and regenerates 
	      the .player database.  This is useful for modifying the database.
	      You can take the output of scores A, and modify whatever you
	      need to (delete a player not being played, reset some stats,
	      whatever.), and then run newscores < filename, and the database
	      will be updated appropriately.  Use cation.  newscores is not
	      very robust, and writes over old .player database.  Should
	      back it up first "just in case"
  resetplanets - reset galaxy to default planet setup.
  message - Allows you to type in any message, and have it sent to any player,
	    team, or to all.
            This would be *bad* to let people do in general, because it
	    allows you to forge messages.
  xtkill - Nuke a player.  Fun, and occasionally useful when someone needs
	   a serious slap on the hands.  The player is *not* kicked out of 
	   the game, just nuked.
  planets - List all planets with some general info about them.
  trimscores - takes the output of "scores A", and trims away players which
	       no longer seem to be active.  You may specify 1 numerical
	       argument, which represents how "harsh" the program should be
	       when deciding which characters to throw away.  The default is
	       10.  Output is a list of deleted characters.
  showgalaxy - a curses (termcap) tool to watch the galaxy.  Good for checking
	       in on the game over a modem.  Commands are 'm' for message,
	       'z' for zoom (followed by player number), 'P' for planet
	       list, 'L' for player list, and 'f' for full screen view.
	       Command line option -d## says how many tenths of a second
	       between frames (default is 10 -- 1 frame per second).

   NOTE:  Do not pipe the output of "scorea A" to newscores or trimscores
     directly.  Since newscores and trimscores both rewrite the .players file,
     they will interfere with "scores" reading of the file, and data will be
     lost.

Installation:

    To install this stuff:

    Modify the Makefile to copy players and scores into some generally
    accessible location, like /usr/games.  The other tools should be
    left in an inaccessible place.

